>> Jason Lengstorf: Before this is really
gonna do anything useful we need to
actually set these colors, right.
And this is where we get
into component shadowing.
So component shadowing in
Gatsby is a method for
us to override a file in another theme or
plugin.
Without actually needing to
modify the source code, or
dive into node modules, or
fully eject all the code.
So we can just pick one thing
that we want to change and
change it and
the plugin will pick that up.
So to do that the way that it works is we
can target the plugin we want to change so
gatsby-plugin-theme-ui.
And then inside of that we get
access to its whole source folder.
So theme UI is set up where they
put the theme just at the root so
we can do index.js.
And to set up a style object
we just export an object.
And there are some keys.
There's a whole Theme UI spec that
we can look at on theme-ui.com.
I'm not gonna get deep into this, but if
we look at the spec we can see that there
are colors, fonts, font sizes,
a whole bunch of things that you can set.
And if you follow this spec
the nice thing about it is that
any theme following the Theme UI
spec will respect these settings.
So if I set a primary color any site using
Theme UI will respect that primary color.
And so if my site exports a theme object
all of the themes using Theme UI that
are installed on my site will pick up
the settings from my Theme UI object
without me having to change
anything in the themes themselves.
So this is really, really handy for us.
And I'm just gonna set
up some colors to start.
So let's set up a primary color, we’ll
make it rebeccapurple because this is
a Gatsby site and Gatsby uses
rebeccapurple as a brand color.
We’ll do secondary of indigo,
we can set up a muted color of gray,
a text color of purple and a.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Background of white.
And that’s good enough to get us started.
So let's just start the site here.
We'll do yarn workspace theme-dev develop.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
once this gets up and
running we can see that
it picked up our colors.